# GE Dishwasher Not Drying Dishes

## Problem

My GE dishwasher suddenly stopped drying dishes.

Make: GE

Model: GDT545PSJ2SS


## Root Cause

The flood switch's was broken.  Looking online, this is a very common issue
with this dishwasher.  THere is a thermistor in this flood switch the monitors
the temperature of the water in the sump system and tells the heating element
to back down if it is too hot.  When this thermistor goes bad, the control
system has a bad temp input and therefore cannot turn up the temperature as
high as it needs to be to properly dry the dishes.

## Solution

Looking online, i found the part number for the flood switch:
https://www.geapplianceparts.com/store/parts/ModelSectionParts/GDT545PSJ2SS/5/0/0/0/SUMP_&_FILTER_ASSEMBLY

Unfortunely, this part was not in stock in GE's part store.  However, it was found on Amazon:

Order a replacement flood switch:
    https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B018A3EIFG/ref=ppx_yo_dt_b_asin_title_o03_s00?ie=UTF8&psc=1

You will also need a 1/4" socket driver.

Empty the dishwasher and remove the bottom drawer.

Remove the spinning sprayer.

Unscrew the flood switch cover.

Remove the mesh strainer.

Use a rag to sop up as much of the remaining water as possible.

Unscrew the 2 1/4" bolts, being very careful not to drop them.

Pull up the flood switch.  THere is a wire hardness connected to the bottom so
don't yant too aggressively.  After it is loose, pull off the wire harness and
put in a new flood switch.  

Put everythign back togehter in reverse order.  


## Observations

* When running, the water was getting hot.  This tells me that the heating coil was working
* THe door vent was not clogged.  When blowing air into 1 end, I could the air flow on the other end. 

## Research and Experiments

Initially i thought it was the heating coil.  If the dishwasher is not getting
hot, the room temperature water will take forever to dry.  However, there were
a few things that lead me away from this theory.  First, the chances of a
heating coil failing is pretty low.  It is basically a chunk of metal.  THere
isnt much that could go wrong with it.  Second, when i stop the dishwasher half
way and observe the water temp, it is hot.  Im not sure if it is as hot as it
should be, but it is hot.

Next, i focused on the door vent.  This is where the water vapor will escape
when it is drying.  If this was clogged up, the hot water would evaporate, but
it would just recondense inside the dishwasher after it cools off.  This theory
was busted when i unscrewed the vent cover, looked around.  I didnt see
anything.  Also, if i blow air through 1 side, i feel it come out on the other
side.  Also, this is jsut a dumb vent.  It does not have a fan or anything that
dynamically closes and opens the vent, so the chance of failure is low.

I started googling and found several videos online describing a similar issue:

    * https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4I2u2pF8Dyo
    * https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jcm6-huXtKY

THis is was narrowed my focus on the flood switch. 
